<div align="justify">

# Practicum 10
[[**Home**](https://github.com/lpacher/lae)] [[**Back**](https://github.com/lpacher/lae/tree/master/fpga/practicum)]

In this practicum you will experiment with the **Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter (UART)** protocol on real FPGA hardware.

For this purpose **two sample RTL designs** have been already prepared for you, both implementing a UART transmitter written
in Verilog HDL to **send data from the FPGA to the host computer** through the **on-board USB/UART bridge** available on the
Digilent Arty-A7 board.

The proposed two designs implement the following functionalities:

* send printable **ASCII characters** stored into a ROM through UART
* read the **on-chip temperature** by compiling a **Xilinx A/D Converter (XADC)** IP core and send temperature values through UART

<br />

All HDL and IP sources, scripts and constrains are available in the `.solutions/` directory as usual. Top-level RTL modules
are `uart_ascii.v` and `uart_xadc.v`

For this practicum, **try yourself** to:

* setup the work area
* copy all required sources and scripts from the `.solutions/` directory
* inspect RTL sources
* compile required IP cores from XCI files
* implement the designs on target FPGA
* install and debug the firmware

<br />

Once the firmware has been properly installed you can use the **PuTTY terminal emulator** to open a serial
connection and read data from the FPGA.

Display at the oscilloscope both the serial output stream **TxD** and the **busy** signals at the same time using two probes.
For easier debug, it is recommended to trigger on the auxiliary **busy** signal generated by the UART transmitter.
Compare your results with the expected UART-protocol timing specification.

Ask to the teacher if you need help.

<br />

**EXTRA**

The `uart_xadc.v` design uses the embedded 12-bit XADC to monitor the on-chip temperature an and to send
temperature values to the local computer through the FTDI UART/USB bridge.

In order to make a **real-time histogram** of the incoming XADC data a simple **PyROOT data-acquisition system (DAQ)**
that use the **Serial** Python library in place of PuTTY.

A fully-working pre-compiled Python 2.7 installation including this extra Python library has been already prepared
for Windows users and it is available at the following link:

_<http://personalpages.to.infn.it/~pacher/teaching/FPGA/software/windows/Python.zip>_

<br />

Assuming that you have a proper PyROOT installation you can run the code with:

```
% cp .solutions/bin/hCode.py ./bin/
% python ./bin/hCode.py
```

<br />

Ask to the teacher if you need help.

</div>
